Streamlit Execution Model
Streamlit reruns the entire Python script from top to bottom on every user interaction — button click, text input, selectbox change, etc. Variables defined as plain Python variables are reset to their initial values on every rerun.

To persist data across reruns, always store it in st.session_state. Session state survives reruns within the same browser session.

Session State Initialization Pattern
Always guard session state initialization with an "if key not in st.session_state" check. Without this guard, the value is overwritten on every rerun, erasing any changes made during the previous interaction.

Correct pattern:
    if "score" not in st.session_state:
        st.session_state.score = 0

Wrong pattern (resets every rerun):
    st.session_state.score = 0

The wrong pattern is the single most common Streamlit bug for new users. The secret number resetting on every guess submission is caused by missing this guard.

Button Return Values
A Streamlit button returns True only during the single rerun triggered by clicking it. On the next rerun the button returns False again. All logic that depends on a button click must update st.session_state immediately, because the button will be False by the next rerun.

st.rerun() Forces an immediate rerun. Use it after mutating session state in response to a button if you need the UI to reflect the new state right away.

Widget Key Parameter
When multiple widgets of the same type exist (e.g., multiple text inputs), give each a unique key= parameter. Without unique keys, Streamlit can confuse their internal state. If a widget key changes between reruns (e.g., key="input_{difficulty}"), Streamlit treats it as a new widget and resets it.

st.stop()
Calling st.stop() halts script execution at that point for the current rerun. Use it to short-circuit rendering when a game is already over, preventing downstream input widgets from being shown.

Selectbox and Session State Interaction
A selectbox change triggers a full rerun. If game state (like the secret number) is stored correctly in session state with the initialization guard, changing the difficulty selectbox will NOT reset the game — it will just show updated labels. Always explicitly reset game state via a "New Game" button so the behavior is intentional.
